In the previous video, we took a look at some basics of functions in Julia.
In this video, we are going to take a look at three very important concepts.
Two of these are not very often used, but they're still very important for you to understand.
The third one is critical to Julia and the way machine learning and data science is structured in Julia.
So this is going to be a very important video and hopefully it's going to be fairly straightforward.
It's not complicated, but it's very useful.
OK, so the concept is functional programming and the idea is that you have functions which act on data
and while they're acting on it, they are not affected by the environment.
So you can imagine that you have, let's say, one gigabytes of data which can be divided into five
thousand or a million different parts.
And each invocation of the function on each function call is going to work on one part only, and it's
not going to be affected by how the function works on other parts.
So this can massively parallel your code, and that is why functional programming has been gaining traction
in the recent past.
So Julia takes that a step further.
And in this video, we're going to see how this works.
OK, this is completely transparent.
We just have to look at how Julia does things and it's going to do all the paralyzation for us automatically.
This is going to be very useful when you get to machine learning.
But here we are just taking a look at the basic syntax.
So the three things are number one map.
So MAP is fairly straightforward.
If you haven't seen this before, let's say you have a list and you want to apply a function which is
the square function to each element individually.
So all you have to do is call map, give it a function that you want to apply to each element and give
it a collection of all the elements that you want to apply the function on.
So what that does is it goes ahead and applies this function on each individual element and collects
the results in another area.
So it's essentially mapping one collection to another collection.
Obviously you can save this into a variable so squares and then you can go ahead and show this so that
you can do one for 16.
So a map, therefore, is a higher order function.
A higher the function is a function that takes in another function as its argument.
Right.
So this function is being passed to map.
So map itself is a higher order function.
So there are other examples.
We've seen an example of this before.
So that was filtered in the previous video.
These three mass-producing filter combined make like 90 percent of all functional programming.
Right.
So this is very important and that's all there is to map applies the same function on each individual
element of a collection.
That's it.
Reduce does something similar with a minor change.
So let's say you have the same collection, one to four again and you reduce it with the plus.
So what that does is, as the name implies, it's going to take the first two elements and it's going
to apply this function on them.
Whatever result is produced, it's going to take that and four and apply the same function again.
So essentially it takes the whole collection and reduces it to a final result.
So much easier to demonstrate this.
So let's just go ahead and show this.
So what plus does is one plus two that becomes three, then three plus four that becomes seven.
So if you have, let's say, 10 over here, this is going to be one plus two is going to be three three
plus all is going to be seven and seven plus ten is going to be 17.
So that is the result that we get out of it.
So this seemed like very basic concepts, but they have been shown to essentially be able to do a wide
variety of things that we want to do with machine learning and data.
So you might have heard of Hadoop.
That is a massively parallel processing architecture.
And the architecture on top of which Hadoop stands is the mass-produced architecture or the mass produced
framework.
And this is where that name comes from.
So just these two things, combined with Filter and a couple of other parts of functional programming
are extremely popular, extremely powerful.
In this course, we are going to be concerned with them just for simple case studies.
We're not going to change our whole frameworks towards mass produce.
So this is on Unit one designed for discourse.
The third thing that is very essential for discourse and we are going to come back to this again and
again is the concept of broadcasting.
So again, the concept of broadcast is fairly simple.
The first example is going to be very similar to maps.
So let's say you have connection one to four and you have a function called F, which simply returns
a square.
So it's exactly the same thing that we've done before.
So broadcast F on collection essentially means take F and apply it on each individual element of the
collection.
So this is going to do the same thing as MAP, right?
So one four six except there is a minor difference.
First, the collection does not change, obviously.
So this creates a new collection for us.
Just keep that in mind.
Broadcasts are so useful that they have a dedicated syntax for them in Julia, and that is you take
the function that you want to broadcast or send to each element you appended to it and then give it
the collection on which this function should be applied.
So after collection is the same as.
Broadcast Election Day, you will notice that you cannot do election because if you try to do that,
collection is going to go into X and the body is going to try and square the array and the array cannot
be squared.
So if you try to do a collection, it's going to give you an error.
No method matching squared for an array, so you cannot square it.
So you see the difference between these two.
When people come to Julia, they really have trouble understanding this concept of f dot or the dot
operator.
OK, so that is all there is to it.
It's a shortcut for the broadcast function.
OK, let's go ahead and take a look at some examples.
So if you say M is equal to one of three comma three, now you have a matrix and you can simply go ahead
and.
Try to do FFM now, matrices can be squared.
You know how to square a matrix.
You do the arithmetic and the algebra and it gives you a result.
So FFM is one into one plus one and one plus one and one that goes in the first row, first column and
so on.
It you can write two copies of The Matrix SIDE-BY-SIDE and do the squaring.
It's fairly straightforward.
But if DOT is different, what this does is it applies the squared function on each element individually.
So the f dot m result is one one, one on one and EFM.
Is this so completely different things to different operations?
OK, let's take a couple of more examples.
So one, two, three, four, five, six.
This is our three by three array or matrix.
We can go ahead and say eight dot plus one.
What this is saying is apply the plus operator on all elements of this.
And because plus takes two arguments.
One argument is going to come from the array and the second is this one guy over here so we can say
eight plus one.
And this is going to add one to each element.
So extremely easy to work with.
Plus, you will notice that this is very similar to what people in mathematics write this as.
So people typically add matrices with scalars.
And the idea is that you are going to add that scale to each element individually, just as you have
a dot star too.
And that is going to multiply each element of a with two.
Right.
And this is so common in mathematics that people typically write this as to a and Julia supports that
and you can do to it.
So when you see today what this means is we are taking the multiplying operator or the multiplication
operator and we are broadcasting it to the whole matrix.
Right.
And what's the second argument for multiply are going to be that is this guy over here.
So a very, very concise syntax that is very close to the syntax of mathematics that people are familiar
with.
Now, you can take these concepts and bring them together and you can write F dot to a.
So what that means is first applied into two operator to each element individually and then apply or
broadcast F on all the different elements as well.
So instead of having to write map F, comma a comma map F and such and stuff like really messy stuff,
you can just write f got to a which seems very, very close to the way mathematics is written.
So this comes up again and again in Giulia's practice.
We try to make the syntax of Julia or our code as close to the mathematics index as possible.
That is why we have variable names as Unicode so you can have it in between Zyda and all of that in
your code.
Right.
So that is all there is to it, but it's very powerful.
OK, so let's go ahead and take a look at one final example.
So let's say we have this at a A so this is a two by three array or a matrix to through Matrix.
So if you try to multiply this with another vector, you will see that this is going to try and multiply
it two by three matrix with a one by three vector.
That obviously does not work.
You need a three by one so you can do the transpose of this, but that is a different operator.
What we want to do is we want to multiply this guy.
If you do not start, this is going to take this guy over here and multiply it with this and then multiply
it with this.
OK, so let's do that.
So you will see one gets multiplied by ten to twenty and three with thirty, and then this vector is
repeatedly placed in this location and then forward is multiplied by then five at twenty and six with
thirty.
Right.
So that is what we get over here.
So you can keep doing this, you can say five, eight, seven.
And this is going to give you.
So let's get rid of that.
You can do that and this is going to give you 50 116 do then.
The idea is that broadcasting you can think of this as repeating something so you can repeat a function,
you can repeat a scalar, or you can even repeat vectors over here.
Right.
So let's get rid of that.
We can also go ahead and change the shape of this from a row vector to a kilometer using the transpose.
And now what this is going to do is it's going to multiply 10 with one, 20 with four.
Then the repeated multiplication is going to be 10 to 20 with five and then one more time, 10 with
three and six with 20.
So you get that out.
OK, so let's say variable.
So then 80, 20 hundred and thirty 120.
OK, so I hope that made sense.
You can think of broadcasting as repetition and that's all there is to it.
If you understand this one thing, if dot to a what that means, you're going to go.
OK, so please make sure that you understand the concept of broadcasting.
This is going to come up again and again when we go into data science and machine learning.
And this is like the foundation of Julia, because this is what makes Julia Syntex different from another
language that you might have worked with, such as Python.
So people have trouble with this, but once you do get used to it, you're going to appreciate how concise
this makes your code and how easy it is to go from a research paper or a mathematician's work to a fully
fledged working program.